---
layout: post
title: Advantages and Disadvantages of AR/VR platforms
---

1. **Smartphone/tablet AR Quiver**
The plethora of augmented reality (AR) applications found on most smartphones/tablets today includes apps such as Quiver (quivervision.com), Pokémon Go (pokemongo.com), and even Google Translate (translate.google.com)
## Advantages

   (a) **Portability**: Phones and tablets are ultra-portable and allow users to move about, wander, and explore large areas without any major restrictions (battery life is an exception). AR apps running on these devices makes these apps portable as well.

   (b) **Minimal Setup**: Unlike other AR implementations, AR apps require almost zero setup from the user end. The user just needs to download the app from the App Store and run the AR app. The installation portion of the experience is almost non-existent.

   (c) **Fast Updates**: To improve AR app performance or deliver new content, the app developer just needs to add the changes and push an update to the app. This is fast, efficient, and inexpensive for both the developer and the user.
## Disadvantages

   (a) **Information Control**: When AR apps are developed, one concern is the amount of information. How much information should the user be allowed to experience at one time without feeling inundated? The user experience should be clear, concise, and clear of redundant views.

   (b) Privacy Concerns: Apps such as Google Translate store the searches or results. This data is fair use for Google to use in their other products when servicing the user. They can share this information with advertisers as well. This raises a concern of privacy and what data should be protected.

   (c) **Limited Functions**: As of right now, there is not much AR apps on smartphones/tablets do besides showing 3D models and replacing text on camera.
2. **360 Video**
360 Video implementations include 360fly (360fly.com), YouTube 360 (youtube.com), and nytvr (nytimes.com/marketing/nytvr).
## Advantages

   (a) **Complete Coverage/Data**: 360 videos allow users to explore the entire scope of the video (one exception is the bottom portion which is the camera itself). A user can see all parts of the video as per his choice. This gives more flexibility and facility to the user on how and what he wants to see.

   (b) **Static Parts**: 360 videos are shot with only one camera without any dolly, pan, or rotation of camera. This minimizes lag that appears on other types of videos that aim to achieve a 360 degree feel. This also removes any jittering in the video and helps stabilize the image.
## Disadvantages

   (a) **Grainy Quality**: 360 videos usually do not have the best quality. This is because these video files are huge (they contain, literally, 360 degree of footage) and space is an issue. Even 360 videos on YouTube on 720p quality setting are never really 720p. Thus, 360 videos suffer from this issue.

   (b) **Compatibility**: These videos also have problems with adapting to new platforms even within the same OS ecosystem. 360 videos developed for YouTube may not work seamlessly with other apps such as nytvr. These videos must be converted to the specified format and thus compatibility is an issue.


```python
s = "Python syntax highlighting"
print s
```